.\"
.\" AGRESS - progressive audio coder
.\" Copyleft (C) 2004 Alexander Simakov
.\"
.\" http://www.entropyware.info
.\" xander@entropyware.info
.\"

.TH "AGCODEC" "1" "14 Jul 2019" "AGCODEC(1)" "User Manual"

.SH NAME
.LP
agcodec \- progressive audio coder

.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
agcodec [\fB[options]\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This program allows you to encode and decode audio files format agress
(proGRESSive Audio). Source files must be in the format wav: 8 or
16 bits, stereo or mono mode, sampling frequency \- any.

.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.TP
\fB\-e, \-\-encode\fR
Encode file.
.TP
\fB\-d, \-\-decode\fR
Decode file.
.TP
\fB\-i, \-\-input\fR=NAME FILE
The name of the source file.
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-output\fR=NAME FILE
The name of the target file.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-ratio\fR=VALUE
Compression ratio.
Default 4.0
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-frame\fR=VALUE
Frame size: power of two.
The default is 1024.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-smooth\fR=VALUE
Window length for smoothing frame boundaries.
The default is 5.
.TP
\fB\-m, \-\-mono\fR
Convert stereo to mono before compression.
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-stereo\fR
Compress both stereo channels independently.
.TP
\fB\-j, \-\-jstereo\fR
Use joint stereo mode.
This mode is used by default.
.TP
\fB\-R, \-\-mid\-side\-ratio\fR
Percentage ratio in which it is necessary to divide the bit budget
between the mid and side channels. Valid only when joint stereo mode
is used.
By default, 70.0 percent.
.TP
\fB\-?, \-\-help\fR
This help
.TP
\fB\-\-usage\fR
Brief description of options

.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
agcodec \-e \-i test.wav \-o test.agress \-r 8.0

.SH AUTHORS
.LP
АAlexander Simakov <xander@entropyware.info>

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
agplay(1).
